---
layout: post
title: Cloud service deployment
date: 2012-04-20 16:16
author: techforumugm
comments: true
categories: [Cloud Computing]
---
<span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Cloud service deployment depends on the business requirement, organizational structure and location. Four deployment models are usually distinguished, namely public, private, community and hybrid cloud service usage.</span><br /><br /><strong><span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Private Cloud:</span></strong><br /><span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The cloud infrastructure has been deployed, maintained and operated for a specific organization. The operation may be in-house or with a third party on the premises.</span><br /><br /><strong><span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Community Cloud:</span></strong><br /><span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The cloud infrastructure is shared among a number of organizations with similar interests and requirements. This may help limit the capital expenditure costs for its establishment as the costs are shared among the organizations. The operation may be in-house or with a third party on the premises.</span><br /><br /><strong><span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Public Cloud:</span></strong><br /><span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">In this model cloud Infrastructure is provided to customer free or commercial basis. This enables  a  consumer  to develop  and deploy  a  service  in  the  cloud with  very  little  financial  expense  compared  to  the  capital expenditure requirements normally associated with other deployment options.</span><br /><br /><strong><span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">Hybrid Cloud</span></strong><br /><span style="font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;">The cloud infrastructure consists of a number of clouds of any type, but the clouds have the ability through their interfaces to allow data and/or applications to be moved from one cloud to another. This can be a combination of private and public clouds that support the requirement to retain some data in an organization, and also the need to offer services in the cloud.</span>
