---
layout: post
title: Cloud Computing Service Model
date: 2012-04-20 16:19
author: techforumugm
comments: true
categories: [Cloud Computing]
---
<span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Cloud computing service model describe what types of service is provided to customer according to their business requirements. Cloud service provides different types of service, there are no hard and fast rules governing these service offerings. Most common services model are as below:</span><br /><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;"><strong>IaaS</strong> (Infrastructure as a Service)<strong> </strong></span><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;"><strong>PaaS</strong> (Platform as a Service)</span><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;"><strong>SaaS</strong> (Software as a Service)</span><br /><br /><strong><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS):</span></strong><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Having the service user can get dynamic infrastructure facility by the provider in virtualized form. Billing amount is calculated as per unit resource usages like per CPU hour, data GB stored per hour, network bandwidth consumed, network infrastructure used per hour, value added services used, e.g., monitoring, auto-scaling etc. User can get high resource (CPU, Memory, and Network Bandwidth) for specific time duration. It serves as a foundation for the other two models, for their execution.</span><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Amzon is the pioneer of IaaS. Other leading providers are Rackspace,Windows Azure,VirtuStream,, GoGrid, Joyent, Rightscale , NetMagic  and InstaCompute.</span><br /><br /><strong><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Platform as a Service (PaaS):</span></strong><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Service Provider provide cloud environment for development and deployment software. In this environment Application developer can do development to testing without buying complex hardware or can avoiding preparing and manage complex environment. With some PaaS offers, the underlying compute and storage resources scale automatically to match application demand such that the cloud user does not have to allocate resources manually.</span><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">With the model user can run web service, database, and development and testing tools.</span><br /><br /><strong><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">SaaS (Software as a Service):</span></strong><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Cloud providers Prepare software deployment environment and user can host application software. Maintained and managed software and infrastructure by cloud provider. User can access work having the privilege which is assigned. He needs not to worry on taking backup, security or infrastructural maintenance. Most common SaaS providers are:</span><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Project Management: DeskAway , Zoho Mail, Chat, Docs, Project, Sheet, Writer etc.</span><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">CRM apps – Impel CRM, Salesforce.com, and Microsoft Dynamics.</span><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Cloud based Storage and Sharing services: Drop box, Skydive (windows live), Amazon S3, Google Docs, Box.net, Mozy.</span><br /><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">SMEs/SMBs : EazeWork (for HR, PayRoll and Sales)</span>
