---
layout: post
title: Risks And Benefits in Cloud Computing
date: 2012-05-03 17:55
author: techforumugm
comments: true
categories: [Cloud Computing]
---
<div style="text-align:justify;">RISKS</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Vendor lock-in There are a small number of platform-as-a-service vendors today, and most</div><div style="text-align:justify;">have interests rooted in building a binding relationship through a comprehensive offering.</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Vendors such as Microsoft have been doing this for decades, and if the vendor remains viablea and relevant and responds to the user community, it’s generally a benefit for both parties.</div><div style="text-align:justify;"></div><div style="text-align:justify;">Technical Immaturity Every cloud framework has its own interface methods, services, and</div><div style="text-align:justify;">costs. The unfolding nature of the platform-as-a-service approach puts everything at risk—costs</div><div style="text-align:justify;">could change overnight, services could be dropped, and quality of service could worsen.</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Standards bodies are just beginning to look at the market. Would you bet a critical business</div><div style="text-align:justify;">application on such a new arrival?</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Privacy and Control Vendors generally offer extensive protection methods, and it’s in their</div><div style="text-align:justify;">interests to offer high levels of security. PaaS often provides a relatively sophisticated suite of</div><div style="text-align:justify;">access controls. But you, not the vendor, still own the risk.</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Misjudging “Flexibility versus Power” Generally, you want more flexibility over design,</div><div style="text-align:justify;">development, and deployment for a custom system such as a new profit center—and PaaS</div><div style="text-align:justify;">doesn’t offer flexibility. Instead, it gives power and ready-made services. The trade-offs are</div><div style="text-align:justify;">similar to the ones for outsourcing.</div><div style="text-align:justify;">BENEFITS</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Testing is Deployment The U.S. Army vows to “fight like we train and train like we fight.” For</div><div style="text-align:justify;">development teams, that translates to test like they deploy and deploy like they tested. Cloud</div><div style="text-align:justify;">computing gets them very close—trying multiple machines, different configurations, and different</div><div style="text-align:justify;">locations; running stress tests; and testing compatibility, performance, and response in ways</div><div style="text-align:justify;">impossible in a local environment.</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Dynamic Allocation To compete with the pace set by the likes of Twitter, Facebook, and</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Google, modern IT teams must be able to all but flip a switch to turn up a new service or features,</div><div style="text-align:justify;">or test it on a small segment of customers. Before cloud computing, that was unthinkable.</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Now business IT teams can approach the “perpetual beta” for which Google is known.</div><div style="text-align:justify;">Internal Entrepreneurship The biggest strategic benefit is that developing through platform as a</div><div style="text-align:justify;">service, combined with quick deployment on infrastructure online, can empower visionaries in</div><div style="text-align:justify;">any part of the company. Consider creating a cloud budget, letting teams experiment with</div><div style="text-align:justify;">cloud computing resources, and see what they dream up.</div>
