---
layout: post
title: Virtualization and Cloud Computing
date: 2012-04-20 15:28
author: techforumugm
comments: true
categories: [Cloud Computing]
---
<div style="text-align:left;"></div><div style="text-align:left;"></div><div style="text-align:left;"><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;"><strong>The Traditional Server Concept</strong></span></div><div style="text-align:left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align:left;"><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">In an organization there are many more server resides according to their functionality i.e Active directory Server., Application Server ,Database server ,Mail server ,File server so on …</span></div><div style="text-align:left;"><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Though there are many types of risk involved there Power fail, Hardware fail, Maintainability problem and Natural disaster. To avoid fault tolerance many types of initiative has to take clustering, mirroring, replication so on. Many application do not work on mirroring or replication</span></div><div style="text-align:left;"><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Application software requires more resource then normal execution cycle whenever batch processing need to execute like EOD or Day End or Year End process. For that require additional investment.</span></div><div style="text-align:left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align:left;"><strong><strong><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">What is Virtualization?</span></strong></strong></div><div style="text-align:left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align:left;"><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Virtualization seek to encapsulate the server software away from the hardware includes OS, the applications, and the storage for that server. Server templates can be created in a virtual environment to be used to create multiple, identical virtual servers. This can be reconfigurable while services are running, Optimizes physical resources by doing more with less and easily deployable.The ability to run multiple operating systems on a single physical system and share the underlying hardware resources.</span></div><div style="text-align:left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align:left;"><strong><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">What is Cloud Computing?</span></strong></div><div style="text-align:left;"><br /></div><div style="text-align:left;"><span style="font-family:Verdana, sans-serif;">Cloud computing takes virtualization to the next step. Using cloud technology working using virtualization concept .Organization need not to invest on IT infrastructure, large IT department, avoid fault tolerance and backup etc. Organization can get service as rental basis from service provider (IBM ,Microsoft, Amazon, VirtuStream ) or can create private cloud.</span></div>
